# pygame.surfarray

配列インタフェースを用いて表面ピクセルデータにアクセスするための pygame モジュール

|               API               |                           説明                           |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| pygame.surfarray.array2d        | 画素を2次元配列にコピーする                              |
| pygame.surfarray.pixels2d       | 画素を2次元配列に参照する                                |
| pygame.surfarray.array3d        | ピクセルを3次元配列にコピーする                          |
| pygame.surfarray.pixels3d       | 画素を3次元配列に参照する                                |
| pygame.surfarray.array_alpha    | 画素のアルファ値を2次元配列にコピーします。              |
| pygame.surfarray.pixels_alpha   | 参照画素のアルファを2次元配列にする                      |
| pygame.surfarray.array_red      | 赤の画素を2次元配列にコピーする                          |
| pygame.surfarray.pixels_red     | 参照画素の赤を2次元配列に変換する。                      |
| pygame.surfarray.array_green    | 緑色の画素を2次元配列にコピーする                        |
| pygame.surfarray.pixels_green   | 参照画素の緑を2次元配列にする。                          |
| pygame.surfarray.array_blue     | 青色のピクセルを2次元配列にコピーする                    |
| pygame.surfarray.pixels_blue    | 参照画素の青を2次元配列にする。                          |
| pygame.surfarray.array_colorkey | カラーキーの値を2次元配列にコピーします。                |
| pygame.surfarray.make_surface   | 配列を新しい表面にコピーする                             |
| pygame.surfarray.blit_array     | 配列の値から直接ブリットする                             |
| pygame.surfarray.map_array      | 3次元配列から2次元配列へのマッピング                     |
| pygame.surfarray.use_arraytype  | サーフェスアレイに使用するアレイシステムを設定します。   |
| pygame.surfarray.get_arraytype  | 現在アクティブな配列の種類を取得します。                 |
| pygame.surfarray.get_arraytypes | 現在サポートされているアレイシステムの種類を取得します。 |

Functions to convert between NumPy arrays and Surface objects. This module will only be functional when pygame can use the external NumPy package. If NumPy can't be imported, surfarray becomes a MissingModule object.

Every pixel is stored as a single integer value to represent the red, green, and blue colors. The 8-bit images use a value that looks into a colormap. Pixels with higher depth use a bit packing process to place three or four values into a single number.

The arrays are indexed by the X axis first, followed by the Y axis. Arrays that treat the pixels as a single integer are referred to as 2D arrays. This module can also separate the red, green, and blue color values into separate indices. These types of arrays are referred to as 3D arrays, and the last index is 0 for red, 1 for green, and 2 for blue.

The pixels of a 2D array as returned by array2d() and pixels2d() are mapped to the specific surface. Use pygame.Surface.unmap_rgb()convert a mapped integer color value into a Color to convert to a color, and pygame.Surface.map_rgb()convert a color into a mapped color value to get the surface specific pixel value of a color. Integer pixel values can only be used directly between surfaces with matching pixel layouts (see pygame.Surfacepygame object for representing images).

All functions that refer to "array" will copy the surface information to a new numpy array. All functions that refer to "pixels" will directly reference the pixels from the surface and any changes performed to the array will make changes in the surface. As this last functions share memory with the surface, this one will be locked during the lifetime of the array.

pygame.surfarray.array2d()
Copy pixels into a 2d array
array2d(Surface) -> array
Copy the mapped (raw) pixels from a Surface into a 2D array. The bit depth of the surface will control the size of the integer values, and will work for any type of pixel format.

This function will temporarily lock the Surface as pixels are copied (see the pygame.Surface.lock()lock the Surface memory for pixel access - lock the Surface memory for pixel access method).


pygame.surfarray.pixels2d()
Reference pixels into a 2d array
pixels2d(Surface) -> array
Create a new 2D array that directly references the pixel values in a Surface. Any changes to the array will affect the pixels in the Surface. This is a fast operation since no data is copied.

Pixels from a 24-bit Surface cannot be referenced, but all other Surface bit depths can.

The Surface this references will remain locked for the lifetime of the array, since the array generated by this function shares memory with the surface. See the pygame.Surface.lock()lock the Surface memory for pixel access - lock the Surface memory for pixel access method.


pygame.surfarray.array3d()
Copy pixels into a 3d array
array3d(Surface) -> array
Copy the pixels from a Surface into a 3D array. The bit depth of the surface will control the size of the integer values, and will work for any type of pixel format.

This function will temporarily lock the Surface as pixels are copied (see the pygame.Surface.lock()lock the Surface memory for pixel access - lock the Surface memory for pixel access method).


pygame.surfarray.pixels3d()
Reference pixels into a 3d array
pixels3d(Surface) -> array
Create a new 3D array that directly references the pixel values in a Surface. Any changes to the array will affect the pixels in the Surface. This is a fast operation since no data is copied.

This will only work on Surfaces that have 24-bit or 32-bit formats. Lower pixel formats cannot be referenced.

The Surface this references will remain locked for the lifetime of the array, since the array generated by this function shares memory with the surface. See the pygame.Surface.lock()lock the Surface memory for pixel access - lock the Surface memory for pixel access method.


pygame.surfarray.array_alpha()
Copy pixel alphas into a 2d array
array_alpha(Surface) -> array
Copy the pixel alpha values (degree of transparency) from a Surface into a 2D array. This will work for any type of Surface format. Surfaces without a pixel alpha will return an array with all opaque values.

This function will temporarily lock the Surface as pixels are copied (see the pygame.Surface.lock()lock the Surface memory for pixel access - lock the Surface memory for pixel access method).


pygame.surfarray.pixels_alpha()
Reference pixel alphas into a 2d array
pixels_alpha(Surface) -> array
Create a new 2D array that directly references the alpha values (degree of transparency) in a Surface. Any changes to the array will affect the pixels in the Surface. This is a fast operation since no data is copied.

This can only work on 32-bit Surfaces with a per-pixel alpha value.

The Surface this references will remain locked for the lifetime of the array, since the array generated by this function shares memory with the surface. See the pygame.Surface.lock()lock the Surface memory for pixel access - lock the Surface memory for pixel access method.


pygame.surfarray.array_red()
Copy red pixels into a 2d array
array_red(Surface) -> array
Copy the pixel red values from a Surface into a 2D array. This will work for any type of Surface format.

This function will temporarily lock the Surface as pixels are copied (see the pygame.Surface.lock()lock the Surface memory for pixel access - lock the Surface memory for pixel access method).

New in pygame 2.0.2.


pygame.surfarray.pixels_red()
Reference pixel red into a 2d array.
pixels_red (Surface) -> array
Create a new 2D array that directly references the red values in a Surface. Any changes to the array will affect the pixels in the Surface. This is a fast operation since no data is copied.

This can only work on 24-bit or 32-bit Surfaces.

The Surface this references will remain locked for the lifetime of the array, since the array generated by this function shares memory with the surface. See the pygame.Surface.lock()lock the Surface memory for pixel access - lock the Surface memory for pixel access method.


pygame.surfarray.array_green()
Copy green pixels into a 2d array
array_green(Surface) -> array
Copy the pixel green values from a Surface into a 2D array. This will work for any type of Surface format.

This function will temporarily lock the Surface as pixels are copied (see the pygame.Surface.lock()lock the Surface memory for pixel access - lock the Surface memory for pixel access method).

New in pygame 2.0.2.


pygame.surfarray.pixels_green()
Reference pixel green into a 2d array.
pixels_green (Surface) -> array
Create a new 2D array that directly references the green values in a Surface. Any changes to the array will affect the pixels in the Surface. This is a fast operation since no data is copied.

This can only work on 24-bit or 32-bit Surfaces.

The Surface this references will remain locked for the lifetime of the array, since the array generated by this function shares memory with the surface. See the pygame.Surface.lock()lock the Surface memory for pixel access - lock the Surface memory for pixel access method.


pygame.surfarray.array_blue()
Copy blue pixels into a 2d array
array_blue(Surface) -> array
Copy the pixel blue values from a Surface into a 2D array. This will work for any type of Surface format.

This function will temporarily lock the Surface as pixels are copied (see the pygame.Surface.lock()lock the Surface memory for pixel access - lock the Surface memory for pixel access method).

New in pygame 2.0.2.


pygame.surfarray.pixels_blue()
Reference pixel blue into a 2d array.
pixels_blue (Surface) -> array
Create a new 2D array that directly references the blue values in a Surface. Any changes to the array will affect the pixels in the Surface. This is a fast operation since no data is copied.

This can only work on 24-bit or 32-bit Surfaces.

The Surface this references will remain locked for the lifetime of the array, since the array generated by this function shares memory with the surface. See the pygame.Surface.lock()lock the Surface memory for pixel access - lock the Surface memory for pixel access method.


pygame.surfarray.array_colorkey()
Copy the colorkey values into a 2d array
array_colorkey(Surface) -> array
Create a new array with the colorkey transparency value from each pixel. If the pixel matches the colorkey it will be fully transparent; otherwise it will be fully opaque.

This will work on any type of Surface format. If the image has no colorkey a solid opaque array will be returned.

This function will temporarily lock the Surface as pixels are copied.


pygame.surfarray.make_surface()
Copy an array to a new surface
make_surface(array) -> Surface
Create a new Surface that best resembles the data and format on the array. The array can be 2D or 3D with any sized integer values. Function make_surface uses the array struct interface to acquire array properties, so is not limited to just NumPy arrays. See pygame.pixelcopypygame module for general pixel array copying.

New in pygame 1.9.2: array struct interface support.


pygame.surfarray.blit_array()
Blit directly from a array values
blit_array(Surface, array) -> None
Directly copy values from an array into a Surface. This is faster than converting the array into a Surface and blitting. The array must be the same dimensions as the Surface and will completely replace all pixel values. Only integer, ASCII character and record arrays are accepted.

This function will temporarily lock the Surface as the new values are copied.


pygame.surfarray.map_array()
Map a 3d array into a 2d array
map_array(Surface, array3d) -> array2d
Convert a 3D array into a 2D array. This will use the given Surface format to control the conversion. Palette surface formats are supported for NumPy arrays.


pygame.surfarray.use_arraytype()
Sets the array system to be used for surface arrays
use_arraytype (arraytype) -> None
DEPRECATED: Uses the requested array type for the module functions. The only supported arraytype is 'numpy'. Other values will raise ValueError. Using this function will raise a DeprecationWarning.


pygame.surfarray.get_arraytype()
Gets the currently active array type.
get_arraytype () -> str
DEPRECATED: Returns the currently active array type. This will be a value of the get_arraytypes() tuple and indicates which type of array module is used for the array creation. Using this function will raise a DeprecationWarning.

New in pygame 1.8.


pygame.surfarray.get_arraytypes()
Gets the array system types currently supported.
get_arraytypes () -> tuple
DEPRECATED: Checks, which array systems are available and returns them as a tuple of strings. The values of the tuple can be used directly in the pygame.surfarray.use_arraytype()Sets the array system to be used for surface arrays () method. If no supported array system could be found, None will be returned. Using this function will raise a DeprecationWarning.

New in pygame 1.8.

